docs: add schema-sync blog (#653)
bytebase/bytebase.com: content/blog/database-schema-synchronization-in-5-mins.md

---

> title: Database Schema Synchronization in 5 mins

Reviewer: How to synchronize database schemas

and let's change the URL accordingly.

author: Ningjing
published_at: 2022/11/24 18:00
feature_image: /static/blog/database-schema-synchronization-in-5-mins/sync-schema.webp
tags: Education
description: This article briefly describes the general scenarios of database schema synchronization and how to use this feature smoothly in Bytebase with pure UI operations.
---

This article briefly describes the general scenarios of **database schema synchronization** and how to use this feature smoothly in Bytebase with **pure UI operations**.

## General Scenarios

> Bytebase's database **schema synchronization** feature (introduced in [v1.8.0](/changelog/bytebase-1-8-0)） supports copying a specific version of schema from one database to another. Without this feature, developers have to write SQL statements cautiously and apply them manually; Now with this feature, they can simply tell Bytebase which database schema needs to be replicated to the target database, and the whole process can be done through UI operations. This feature can solve the following scenarios:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bytebase's database **schema synchronization** feature (introduced in [1.8.0](/changelog/bytebase-1-8-0)） supports copying a specific schema version from one database to another. Without this feature, developers have to write SQL statements cautiously and apply them manually; Now with this feature, they can simply tell Bytebase which database schema needs to be replicated to the target database, and the whole process can be done from UI. This feature can solve the following scenarios:
```

### Scenario 1
During the product release process, for different environments, such as dev / staging / prod, you need to do schema synchronization. For example, the R&D release process from dev to staging, then to prod in the forward direction, or from prod to dev for testing purposes in the reverse direction.

### Scenario 2
For the production environment, databases with identical schemas, such as SaaS, multi-region game deployment, etc.

> 1) Manual modification by humans due to special ad-hoc reasons - causes database schema drift, which needs to renormalize.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) Manual modification by humans due to special ad-hoc reasons - causes database schema drift, which needs reconciliation.
```

> 2) The vendor maintains multiple versions of the product, so it also needs to normalize the schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) The vendor maintains multiple product versions, so it also needs to reconcile the schema.
```

``` sql
CREATE TABLE t1 (
   person_id INT,
   last_name VARCHAR(255),
   first_name VARCHAR(255),
   address VARCHAR(255),
   city VARCHAR(255)
);
```

5. Go back to project **sync-schema** page, and click **Alter Schema**. Choose **dbprod** in **Prod**, and click **Next**. Copy and paste the SQL below and click **Create**.
``` sql
CREATE TABLE t2 (
   person_id INT,
   full_name VARCHAR(255)
);
```

### Feature Experience Phase

1. Go back to the project **sync-schema** page, click **Schema-Sync**, and fill in steps 1-3 to synchronize the schema of the **dbtest** database to **dbprod**:
![sync-schema UI](/static/blog/database-schema-synchronization-in-5-mins/sync-schema-ui.webp)

2. Click **Preview Issue**, you will go to the new issue page with preview:
![issue SQL](/static/blog/database-schema-synchronization-in-5-mins/issue-sql.webp)

3. Click **Create**, and the **Issue** is truly created. **Approve** and **Fix** the issue, the schema synchronization will be completed.
![dbprod t1](/static/blog/database-schema-synchronization-in-5-mins/dbprod-t1.webp)

## Enterprise Plan

> With **Free** or **Team Plan**, you can only choose the latest version of history; Only with **Enterprise Plan** can you freely choose from the full migration history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Bytebase **Free** or **Team Plan**, you can choose the latest history version; In **Enterprise Plan** , you can choose an arbitrary schema version from the full migration history.
```

> From Bytebase [v1.8.0](/changelog/bytebase-1-8-0), you can run a 14-day **Team Plan** trial without hub registration. While having **Team Plan** trial, you can upgrade to the **Enterprise Plan** trial by clicking **Upgrade** in a specific feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From Bytebase [1.8.0](/changelog/bytebase-1-8-0), you can run a 14-day **Team Plan** trial without hub registration. While having **Team Plan** trial, you can upgrade to the **Enterprise Plan** trial by clicking **Upgrade** in a specific feature.
```
